# Random Number Generator(Troubleshooting)
__Pipeline of this project:__
Push button => 555 timer => IC4026 decoder => 7 segment display

Make sure that the wire connections are made properly. Use multimeter for this to check the connectivity between the terminals.
## Functionality of components:

### Push button:
Touching the metal button switch too frequently can cause its metal shrapnel to lose its elasticity and disable the push on switch. In fact, this is a common problem of electronic switches, and the frequent use of any electronic components will accelerate aging. So, if your push button has met any of these, consider buying a new one. Check the resources section to buy.

Repeat the project several times by pushing the push button and see if you are able to see any output in the 7 segment display.
### 555 timer:
To check whether the timing is working or not, connect the output pin to LED3 of the timer and then supply voltage. You should be able to see blinking of LED(Note that your timer should be in astable multivibrator mode). If you see the LED lights up without blinking or LED doesnt even light up, then the problem is with the timer. Check the resources section to get a new IC.

__Did you accidentally destroy the IC/Device or does the IC feels hot ?__

This might happen if we give more than maximum amount of supply voltage. The IC might get burnt and you probably need to replace.

__Random number generated but it is not efficient?__


You should keep the frequency output high so that the user will cannot judge the number sequence by any means.
The frequency of the square wave generated by the timer depends upon the value of R1,R2 and C1. Use [this](https://components101.com/ic-cd4026-pinout-circuit-datasheet) for appropriate connections.


## IC 4026 decoder:
Make sure that you wired the connections properly from [this](https://components101.com/ic-cd4026-pinout-circuit-datasheet) datasheet.
Check the continuity between terminals using multimeter. If there is any problem with the continuity or if the IC circuit looks hot, your IC4026 7 segment decoder has to be changed. Again, check in the resources section to get a new one.

## LED seven segment display:
